Adjust documentation for registration of catalog items (#3183)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Cloud_Platform/Catalog/Register_Catalog_Item.md

---
uid: Register_Catalog_Item
---

# Registering a Catalog item

Below you can find detailed information on how you can register a private Catalog item, either [using the Catalog UI](#using-the-catalog-ui), or [using the Catalog API](#using-the-catalog-api).

## Using the Catalog UI

If you use the UI, you can only register a new Catalog item, but not a new version. To register a new version for an existing item, [use the API](#using-the-catalog-api).

To register a new Catalog item:

1. Go to the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services).

1. Open the user menu by clicking the user icon in the top-right corner.

1. Click the *Register item* button.

1. Select the organization for which you want to register the Catalog item.

   The selection box is automatically populated with all the organizations you have access to on the dataminer.services platform.

1. Select the type of the Catalog item.

>    This can be one of the supported [Catalog item types](xref:About_the_Catalog_module#supported-catalog-item-types). The type will define how the Catalog item will be shown to the users. Users can also filter on type to quickly find what they are looking for when browsing the Catalog.

Reviewer: If only the supported catalog item types can be selected, I'd rephrase this as follows to prevent possible confusion:
```suggestion
   The selected [Catalog item type](xref:About_the_Catalog_module#supported-catalog-item-types) defines how the Catalog item will be shown to the users. Users can also filter on type to quickly find what they are looking for when browsing the Catalog.
```

1. Enter the name of the item.

   This name will be used to display the item in the Catalog. Make sure you pick a human-readable name that makes sense.

1. Once all information has been filled in, click *Register*.

   This will conclude the registration process for the Catalog item and return the unique identifier for the item in question. This identifier will allow you to register versions for the Catalog item using the [API](#using-the-catalog-api).

## Using the Catalog API

### Authentication

The API call is authenticated using [organization keys](xref:Managing_DCP_keys#organization-keys). The key needs to be added to the HTTP request in a header called **Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key**.

### API call signature

The call to register a Catalog item can be found at the following URL: <https://api.dataminer.serivces/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register>. To call the API you will need to use the **POST** HTTP method.

> The call accepts a binary file as input. This file should be a zip file containing a ["manifest.yml"](xref:Register_Catalog_Item#manifest-file) and the item you want to upload.

Reviewer 2: best to mention that it needs to be Content/Type "multipart/form-data" of type file where key is "file" and value the zip file.

### Manifest file

This file will contain all necessary information to register a Catalog item or version. This manifest file should be a valid .yml file and will contain "required" and "optional" attributes to add extra information to the Catalog item. Note that limitations may apply to certain attributes based on length or formatting.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the *id* field is not filled in, a new Catalog item registration will be created. If you want to register a new version for an existing Catalog item, make sure to fill in the ID of that item.

```yml
# [Required]
# Possible values: 
#   - AutomationScript: If the catalog item is an Automation Script that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.

> #   - AppPackage: If the catalog item is a Solution Package that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.

Reviewer 2: values should be as below (appPackage, protocolpackage is reference to package format but not catalog type): 

![image](https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs/assets/104893314/fd221c81-563d-4b62-98d3-330c6799b5bb)

#   - connector: If the catalog item is a Protocol that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.

> #   - visio: If the catalog item is a Visio that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#   - visio: If the catalog item is a Visio file that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.
```

## Private catalog items

All of the items that have been provided by Skyline Communications are considered to be public items. They are available for all our users. Note that for some of these items (eg Connectors) the user might need to buy a license to be able to use them on their system.

Private catalog items are items that are only available to one or more organizations. This gives users the possibility to develop App Packages, Automation Scripts or any type of catalog item and redeploy them within their organization on various systems or share them with other organizations.

## Versioning of catalog items

Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate a certain version is not an official release (eg 1.2.3-alpha).

> 

Reviewer 3: Should we here mention the fact an exception is made for protocol which do have their own versioning syntax?
If so, refer to following page: https://docs.dataminer.services/develop/devguide/Connector/ProtocolVersionSemantics.html

Author: An exception has not been made yet. We will add this later. For now this is what we support.

Reviewer 3: Does this mean connectors are not supported in a first phase?

Author: They are, we will enforce the connector versioning.

## How to register a private catalog item

### Register using the Catalog UI

If you use the UI, you can only register a catalog item. There is no UI yet to register a new version, this can only be done by using the API.

Registering a new catalog item can be done by executing the following steps.

> 1. Go to the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services). There you will find a button next to the organization selector called         "Register Catalog". Clicking this button will open a popup with a few fields.

Reviewer 3: looks like some spaces need to be cleaned away here.
"Selector called            "Register Catalog".

---
uid: Register_Catalog_Item
---

# Registering a Catalog item

## What is a Catalog item?

> The content available in the Catalog module has always been provided by Skyline Communications. We have been using this module initially to share our connectors with all of our users. In a later stage, we have been adding app packages, Automation scripts and visual overviews. All of these items are called "Catalog items".

Reviewer 4: I think we should be consistent if we use app packages or Application packages. Perhaps the first time we reference, we can add a link to the docs page of it.

As more and more users create their own customized solutions on top of the DataMiner software, we want to allow them to register their solutions to the Catalog as well. This will enable our users to easily manage the solutions and packages they have created, distribute them among the different teams within their organization and even share them with other organizations.

## Private Catalog items

All of the items that have been provided by Skyline Communications are considered to be public items. They are available for all our users. Note that for some of these items (e.g. Connectors) users might need to buy a license to be able to use them on their system.

Private Catalog items are items that are only available to one or more organizations. This gives users the possibility to develop app packages, Automation scripts or any type of Catalog item and redeploy them within their organization on various systems or share them with other organizations.

## Versioning of Catalog items

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Reviewer 4: Also what about Scripts or Visio's? @SimonV-Skyline, what's your take on this, but I'm wondering how we decide to make use of three or four numbers.

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Author: So at the moment we only support semver :) Maybe I will phrase it more clearly.

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Reviewer 3: yes, I think we all understood that you only support semver atm :)
The question is:
- does that mean you allow users to register connectors using semver? -> I would be against that !
- or does that mean you don't yet support connectors -> then I'm OK but we need to mention it explicitely

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Author: Yes we allow that but we can block that if you want, what would be the downside of a customer registering a connector with semver? Might be perfectly fine?
We do support connectors.

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Author: If you think this would be better, we can block connectors for registration until we support the connector versioning as well and enforce that then.

> Catalog items can hold multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is promoted for Catalog item versions. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

Author: Will enforce x.x.x.x(-label) on the connectors

## How to register a private Catalog item

### Register using the Catalog UI

> If you use the UI, you can only register a Catalog item. There is no UI yet to register a new version. This can only be done by using the API.

Reviewer 4: Give context who can use the 'API' and if we have documentation available.

Author: The documentation is on this page.

Author: I linked it.

To register a new Catalog item, do the following:

1. Go to the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services).

1. Open the user menu by clicking the user icon on the top right. Here you will find the "Register item" button.

1. Indicate for which organization you want to register the Catalog item. This can be done by using the selection box that will automatically be populated with all the organizations on the dataminer.services platform you have access to.

> 1. Select the type of the Catalog item. The type will define how the Catalog item will be shown to the users. We also allow filtering on type so users can quickly find what they are looking for when browsing the Catalog module.

Reviewer 2: clarify that with type we mean connector, visio, automation script etc and determines the type of solution/integration you made.

Reviewer 4: I agree. I would indicate the available list or share some documentation about this.

Author: Added the list on this page and referenced it

1. Enter the name of the item. This will be the name that will be used to display the item in the Catalog. It needs to be human readable. Make sure you pick a name that makes sense.

1. Once all information has been filled in, click *Register*. This will conclude the registration process for the Catalog item and return the unique identifier for the item in question. This identifier will allow you to register versions for the catalog item using the [API](xref:Register_Catalog_Item#register-using-the-catalog-api).

> ### Register using the Catalog API

Reviewer 2: perhaps add the b2c authenticated call as well that allows to just register a item (without version). the call that is used by the UI atm.

> ### Register using the Catalog API

Reviewer 2: is it the intention that skyline users register their item as well as private?

Reviewer 4: I would say YES for sure. We should try to polish the Catalog as much as possible. A lot of packages are not meant to be public in any way. We should register them under 'Skyline Communications Development'.

I do think some example packages should be public, but it should be clear (e.g. by label) that it should it is an 'example'.

Author: Please register them under Skyline Communications!!
If they later get published it will say "Skyline Communications Development" as publisher....

#### API call signature

The call to register a Catalog item can be found at the following URL: <https://api.dataminer.serivces/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register>. To call the API you will need to use the **POST** HTTP method.

The call accepts a binary file as input. This file should be a zip file containing a ["manifest.yml"](xref:Register_Catalog_Item#manifest-file) and the item you want to upload.

#### Manifest file

This file will contain all necessary information to register a Catalog item or version. This manifest file should be a valid yml file and will contain "required" and "optional" attributes to add extra information to the Catalog item. Note that limitations may apply to certain attributes based on length or formatting.

```yml
# [Required]
# Possible values: 
#   - AutomationScript: If the catalog item is an Automation Script that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.
#   - AppPackage: If the catalog item is a Solution Package that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.
#   - ProtocolPackage: If the catalog item is a Protocol that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.
#   - Visio: If the catalog item is a Visio that can be deployed on a DataMiner System.

> type: 'AutomationScript'

Reviewer 4: Did you check this with Data Acquisition? This is something that is typically also clear from the GitHub Action?

In this way, we can still make use of an Automation Script solution registering as a 'AppPackage' (ref. discussion earlier)? Can you elaborate?

Author: Yes this was checked by with Data Acquisition, they were in all meetings that were held to create this file.
The GitHub action will just pass this file to us.
It will indeed be possible to register an automation script as an app package if you would want to do so.
This type is not defining how something is packaged, it defines the type of the Catalog item as it will be shown on the catalog.

# [Required] 

> # The id of the catalog item.

Reviewer 4: indicate from where this is coming

Author: Will leave this as is for now. The warning was moved up.

# All versions for the same id are shown together in the catalog.
# This id can not be changed. 
# If the id is not filled in, the API will return one and consider this as the registration of a new item.
# If the id is filled in, a new version will be added to the catalog item with the given version number.
#   Must be a valid GUID.
id: '<fill in guid here or leave empty>'

# [Required] 
# The human-friendly name of the catalog item. 
# Can be changed at any time.
#   Max length: 100 characters.
#   Can not contain newlines.
#   Can not contain leading or trailing whitespace characters.
title: 'add-new-switch'

# [Required] 
# The version in format X.X.X
# Once a version has been published it can no longer be changed.
# The version should be incremented to do any changes.
# If you want to create a package that is not final, you can provide a label at the end: X.X.X-label
# If a catalog item has a label in the version, then the version is considered to be a pre-release version, and not an official one.
#   Valid versions range from 0.0.0 to 2147483647.2147483647.2147483647
#   The label can contain characters a-z0-9 with a max length of 30 characters.

> version: '1.0.0'

Reviewer 4: Are we then still supposed to 'tag' a solution? What will happen if you don't change the manifest file, but tag with a new version (or the other way around)?

Author: What do you mean with tag a solution?
Versioning is controlled by the manifest file and nothing else. If you do not update is you will get an error telling you this version already exists.

# [Optional]
# General information about the catalog item.
#   Max length: 100.000 characters
description: |

>   This script allows you to easily add a new leaf switch element.

Reviewer 4: Do we need this? Don't we have a 'Readme' file?

Author: This is the first iteration.
In a future iteration we will allow the readme file. This is not supported yet.

# [Optional]
# A short description for this specific version.
# This message is shown along side each version in the version overviews in the catalog. 
#   Max length: 500 characters.

> version-message: 'Initial version. Does not contain anything useful yet.'

Reviewer 4: Can you please engage with Data Acquisition here as there is some overlap with version history available in connectors and application packages.

Author: As mentioned before they have been involved from the beginning when creating this file.
What is the overlap you are mentioning?

# [Optional]
# A valid URL that points to the home page.

> # Usually, this home page is also the location of the source code.

Reviewer 4: Can we somehow automatically use the 'URL' when we 'tag' a catalog item to be released and use that link? It feels counter-productive to specify the link manually.

Author: We could detect this in the github action but note that maybe a user will want to point to external documentation so this is why we allow this.

#   A valid URL
#   Max length: 2048 characters
homepage: 'https://github.com/randomrepo'

# [Optional]
# People that are responsible for this catalog item. Might be developers but is not required.
# Format: 'name <email> (url)'
#   The name is required, max 256 characters.
#   The email and url are optional, and should be in valid email/URL formats.
owners:
  - name: 'David Smith'
  - name: 'Someone'
    email: 'someone@skyline.be'
  - name: 'John Smith'
    email: 'john@skyline.be'
    url: 'https://github.com/JohnSmith'

# [Optional]
# Tags that allow you to categorize your catalog items.
#   Max length: 50 characters.
#   Can not contain newlines.
#   Can not contain leading or trailing whitespace characters.

> tags:

Reviewer 4: I'm a little bit worried about the amount of tags will potentionally be introduced. How will you cope with this on the Catalog UI?

Author: We can opt to only show the first x amount of tags.

Reviewer 5: We can limit this in the first version(s), however, this means we'll need a clear list of which tags are available.
ATM we're not limiting what the users can provide for tag(s)

---
uid: Register_Catalog_Item
---

# Registering a Catalog item

> ## About Catalog items

Reviewer: Could we move line 7 to 32 to a separate page, below "About the Catalog module"? That way we separate the concept information from the actual how-to, which will probably be more user-friendly, especially since the concept info could also be relevant for other topics.

Author: Do we need to add this to the "About the Catalog module" page instead?
Do not really know what title we would give the page otherwise.

Reviewer: Yes, that's also a valid option. Then we can create a subsection "Accessing the Catalog module" with the info that's already there, and "About Catalog items" with this info.

### Public and private Catalog items

Public Catalog items are items that are available for anyone within the community to use.

Private Catalog items are items that are only available within your own organization. This gives users the possibility to develop app packages, Automation scripts or any type of Catalog item and redeploy them within their organization on various systems.

### Versioning of Catalog items

Catalog items can have multiple versions. To make sure that the versioning of items is easy to understand for everyone, [Semver](https://semver.org/) versioning is enforced. Users can assign extra labels to versions if they want to indicate that a certain version is not an official release (e.g. 1.2.3-alpha).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the item is of type Connector, you will need to adhere to the [existing connector versioning](xref:ProtocolVersionSemantics).

### Supported Catalog item types

At present, the following types of Catalog items are supported:

- Automation Script
- Application Package
- Connector

> - Visio

Reviewer: Are these the exact names of the types, or can these be rephrased? This because the casing for Automation Script and Application Package is inconsistent with the rest of the documentation, and we usually also avoid using "Visio" on its own (should be "Visio drawing" or "Visio file" instead).

Author: What would be the correct casing/naming? These are not the exact namings, the exact namings are added at the top of the YAML example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Automation script
- Application package
- Connector
- Visio file
```

## Registering a private Catalog item

### Using the Catalog UI

If you use the UI, you can only register a Catalog item. There is no UI yet to register a new version. This can only be done by using the [API](xref:Register_Catalog_Item#register-using-the-catalog-api).

To register a new Catalog item, do the following:

1. Go to the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services).

1. Open the user menu by clicking the user icon in the top-right corner.

>    Here you will find the *Register item* button.

Reviewer: Should users click this button? If so, this should be included as a step of its own, instead of an indented line.

Author: done
